DARIN: Okay Rob
So, we have here today Mr. Rob
Chalmers, could you tell us a little bit
more about your job, what you do every
day um and how it contributes to space
exploration?
ROB: Sure, I work here at Goddard
Space Flight Center in Greenbelt
Maryland
We're one of a bunch of NASA
field centers scattered around the
country, and Goddard's mission is to is
generally concentrated on in low Earth
orbit either looking at Earth, Earth
resources or climate change or things
happening in the oceans, or looking out at
space targets you know the Hubble
Space Telescope, James Webb Space
Telescope under development. And the
specific mission I'm working on right
now is a payload that's going to be
delivered to the ISS, the International
Space Station and from that vantage
point it will look down at Earth as it
as the Space Station over flies the earth
and using a lidar system which is a
laser-based ranging system it will
measure the height and density of forest
canopy which is so that it'll produce a
map of the Earth, information about the
Earth's forests, and with that
information the scientists can estimate
how much of a carbon sink exists in the
world's forests which is important for
understanding the overall carbon cycle
the how carbon dioxide from the
atmosphere is stored in vegetation
and as well as an other carbon sinks in
the world in the oceans and elsewhere
and so it's a mission called "GEDI", "GEDI"
with a "G", "G-E-D-I" and it's expected to
launch at the end of 2018 or
early 2019.
DARIN: Alright so
ROB: Hold on I'm oh uh
...
ROB: My apologies
had a delivery just
DARIN: Yeah no it's fine.
Yeah so now we'll move into some
more Mars related questions, so first off
Why do you believe it's important to
explore Mars so what benefits to society
are there?
ROB: I haven't given it very much
thought really I think you know in
general it's uh it's the kind of human
quest for knowledge and trying to
understand how the universe has evolved, how planets
have changed over time, the environments
of you know on Mars for example there's
pretty clear evidence that at one time
in the history of Mars there was flowing
water on the surface and so there's just
a natural curiosity of whether whether
it's supported life at some point in the
past whether this potentially life
existing in some form perhaps under the
surface you know even if it's bacterial
or microbial life. So science is
generally about trying to understand our
our environment and then from that
understanding a lot of times we we are
able to advance our own technologies and
and make make advancements that
generally contribute to humanity's
progress I think ultimately the
expectation is that in the future we
will be traveling to the near nearby
planets perhaps creating colonies
hopefully not in response to destroying
our own planet, we'll have to see there's quite a
lot of science fiction about
about the impetus for leaving our planet
in some cases that's because of
disasters here at home in other cases
just to find resources for example just
spread humanity out into the solar
system.
DARIN: Alright so many organizations
have already made it clear that human
astronauts will eventually reach Mars so
when do you think human astronauts will
reach Mars like a year like 2025, 2030
maybe?
ROB: Well yeah it's tough to say there
are a lot of obstacles to to returning
astronauts I mean that there's a you're
probably familiar with a one-way
expedition being proposed in Europe I
don't know how seriously people are
taking it but they are proposing to send
people on a one-way trip to to Mars in
about the 2025 time frame but for the
more I think more serious efforts to
send explorers to Mars and return them
safely I imagine the time frame is even
further out perhaps 2030 so certainly
within your lifetime
I would think. There are a lot of
difficulties it's a you know an order of
magnitude if not more more difficult to
get to Mars than it was to go to the moon
being as far away as it is and requiring
you know missions that are at least a
year long not being able to turn around
and route if there are any problems
basically having to be committed to
going all the way to Mars and looping
around and coming back because our
propulsion technology is just not
capable of doing anything other than
that so and then there's the radiation
exposure which is a major concern for
any long term travel outside of the
Earth's magnetosphere so there are a lot
of obstacles to getting there quickly
and I think the methodological approach
a kind of stepping stone approach going
to maybe near-earth asteroids first
going back to the Moon are are kind of
stepping stone goals intended to address
those problems and solve them prior to
actually going on the huge undertaking
of sending somebody all the way to Mars.
DARIN: Alright so you mentioned radiation
briefly there um so obviously Mars is
not Earth and it's different in many
ways so what special problems might
Mar pose to the long-term health of
the human astronauts?
ROB: Just getting there is is is a really big
hurdle because of the length of time
involved and need to recycle resources
water for example the the radiation
environment encountered on the way to
Mars and Mars itself as you probably know Mars
has a very little magnetic field so
there's no real protective layer around
Mars like Earth has to prevent cosmic
radiation for reaching the surface and
so even even once humans on the surface
of Mars they're still going to encounter
this very heavy radiation exposure and
they need to be protected from that
especially for such long missions so
there are concepts for doing that some
of them involve surrounding the putting
the astronauts inside of a protective,
you know, spacecraft that has where they
use water as a radiation absorber because it
happens to be pretty good at that and
they need to carry the water in any
event for the astronauts to use.
You know
perhaps they would use something similar on the on the surface of Mars as well.
Those are kind of the thoughts that
occur to me I mean certainly have not
much expertise and kind of brainstorming
the problems and possible solutions for
for any astronaut visits to Mars.
DARIN: Alright so I I understand you've worked on the
Curiosity rover is that correct
ROB: Yeah I
worked on one of the payloads on
Curiosity called SAM, Sample Analysis on
Mars.
DARIN: So what scientific operations
do you think are the most important on
Mars that rovers like Curiosity could
not complete that humans can?
ROB: Yeah you're breaking up a little bit I
think you asked about what kind of
science like that would rovers such as
curiosity be doing?
DARIN: No um I said um what
operations would humans be able to do
that rovers like Curiosity could not do?
ROB: Could not do well that's
ETHAN: As in like
ROB: Yes?
ETHAN: As in like why would we need to
send humans to Mars like what what would
be
ROB: That's a you know that's a you know
worthy topic for discussion I guess the
usual response is that humans provide a
lot of sort of capability that that is
simply provided by their presence it's
very hard to program a robotic explorer that can explore at
all comparable to what a human could do
certainly you know there there are
huge advantages to not having to return
your explorer back to Earth I mean that
and you know that's fundamentally why
the trips to Mars have all been one-way
trips simply because it's hugely cheaper
than actually having to return the payload back
to Earth. So I think expense and risk
have been the major reasons why humans
have not been sent to Mars up till now
and you know technology kind of kind of
continues to advance at a pace you know
that sort of matches the funding levels
that are provided but uh
A lot of capability can be built into
robotic explorers like you see on
Curiosity you know ExoMars rovers being
developed I guess there's a Mars 2020
mission as well these are all robotic
missions and there are plans for sample
return mission which certainly predate
sending humans there.
DARIN: Alright so
there's a lot of supplies that the
astronauts will need so like food,
water things like that so how will these
supplies be taken to Mars so will they be
sent in advance or I don't know
something else?
ROB: Yeah I don't know I I
suspect you know that what little I've
kind of read on what the sort of
thinking is is that there would be most
likely missions sent in advance that
carry supplies and kind of pre-deploy
things on the surface facilities as well
you know habitat module perhaps there
there would be actually things put into
low-Earth orbit initially so that a full
mission system is preassembled in a
lower orbit and then the astronauts
would be delivered to that that vehicle
in turn would would be sent on it's way to
Mars. And those are just kind of means to
to deal with sort of our own
technological limitations to make it
possible. There's a lot of things in
Science-Fiction that we kind that makes
things look very easy when in fact that
with our current technologies, one of them is the the easy way
in science fiction space vehicles seem
to be able to stop on a dime, turn around,
and have unlimited amounts of propulsion,
unlimited amounts of energy to just, you
know, zigzag and maneuver and go any
which way they'd like to go, but in fact
with our present, you know, chemical
propulsion technology we have to plan it
all in advance and you have kind of one
shot one trajectory you can follow to
get to get to a destination such as Mars
and it makes for kind of a very scripted
mission it doesn't have much room at all
for any problems that might occur.
DARIN: Alright so there's many groups out there
that aim to put humans on Mars so like
SpaceX, Mars Society, things like that so
is there any one group do you think that
has an advantage over the other ones in
any way so far?
ROB: I probably won't give
a good answer on that question simply
because it's not my place as a
government employed to make comments on
what private ventures are doing there
there are clearly these private ventures
that are hoping to get manned capability.
SpaceX is working on a man-rated vehicle
and there are others and you know we'll
see what happens as as kind of the
commercialization and privatization of
space exploration continues to grow.
DARIN: And last question:
What can an ordinary
citizen do to contribute to the efforts
to explore not only Mars but just
space as a whole?
ETHAN: I'd also like to ask a
question after this I'm just saying
DARIN: Yeah alright
ROB: Alright well I think in general I our society really benefits
from the advances that have been made
and will in future be made in technology
areas of aerospace and medicine you know
just all the branches of science and
space exploration is heavily dependent
on on our technology development and our
scientific understanding continuing to
evolve and continuing to grow and I
think you know any endeavor in those
fields really helps to support its these
efforts to kind of explore and try to
make sense of where we are in the
universe how we fit in.
DARIN: Alright Ethan you had a question
ETHAN: Ah this is somewhat
unrelated but have you ever read the
book or watch the movie the Martian?
ROB: Yes
I've read I've not read the book I seen
the movie
ETHAN: Um one of the things that I
really liked about them of movie is it kind of
showed it wasn't really Science-Fiction
it didn't show um well future
advancements but more kind of the
technology we have right now. Do you
agree with that do you think that it
uses technology that we have today?
ROB: I think they there was you know there was
certainly some some extreme dramatic
license in several areas you know that
help to drive the plot but they did I
think get some things right in terms of
the limitations of what what you can do with
vehicles and you know having to have the
forgot what they called it the large
vehicle to went back and ultimately
rescue the Martian.
Having to have that loop
around the earth and wait and wait and
wait for it to go back on out to Mars and
that was certainly what would
realistically have to happen.
Now whether
or not they would have all the supplies
needed on board that they happened
to have in order to extend their mission
by months and months and months.
But I thought it was a well done movie in any
event.
ETHAN: Thank you
DARIN: Um that's what we
have today are Rob thank you for your
time um
ETHAN: Thank you
DARIN: Yeah
ROB: See you guys. Bye bye.